== The Shed

The Shed is a Ruby on Rails App to support a community tool sharing program.  This project was motivated by us not wanting to buy expensive tools for one off projects.  We thought it would be better if you could just borrow a tool from somebody who lives close to you.  We reduce overall consumption, save money, and build a stronger community.

Users can create accounts and browse the tools their neighbors have listed for sharing.  A user can then send a request to borrow a tool from a neighbor.  If the neighbor approves their request, they can meet off line to hand off the desired tool.  

In the spirit of sharing, we encourage people to take our project and create their own sharing communities.  

Inside the Shed we use the following technologies:

* Rails 4.02

* Backbone.js MVC for displaying tools/users

* Underscore.js for templating

* PostgreSQL Database 

* Google Maps API through the gem 'gmaps4rails'

* Amazon S3 for remote image storage

* ActionMailer for email communication

* Devise for user authentication

* JavaScript Libraries

  * JQuery - DOM traversal
  * Masonry - Cascading grid layout library
  * OWL Carousel - Responsive carousel slider
  * imgLiquid - Resizes images to fit in a container

=Database
For your set up use the provided sample_database_pg.yml as a template for setting up your database settings.  Rename the file to database.yml.  In addition, we have included a database seed file.  You will want to customize this for your own data. Issue the following command to load your seed data.
  bundle exec rake db:drop db:create db:migrate db:seed

=Testing
Execute the following to run the ruby test suite
  bundle exec rake db:migrate RAILS_ENV=test
  bundle exec rspec

=Application 
In order to set the Shed up for your own purposes you will need create the file application.yml under the config folder.  You will need to create an amazon S3 account to take advantage of remote image storage.  You will also need to create/re-use an email account for the shed to send email with.  In it you will need to provide the following values:
  AmazonS3 Secure Data
  * AS3_ACCESS_KEY: ".............."
  * AS3_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY: "...................."
  * AS3_BUCKET_NAME: "................."

  * EMAIL_ACCOUNT: your_address@your_provider.com
  * EMAIL_PASSWORD: ..........

=Environments
You may want to customize ActionMailer under config/development.rb and config/production.rb.  It is currently set up to use smtp.gmail.com
  config.action_mailer.delivery_method = :smtp
  config.action_mailer.smtp_settings = {
  :address              => "smtp.gmail.com",
  :port                 => 587,
  :user_name            => ENV["EMAIL_ACCOUNT"],
  :password             => ENV["EMAIL_PASSWORD"],
  :authentication       => "plain",
  :enable_starttls_auto => true }


=Template Customization
We have set up variables throughout the application for you to easily customize the app for your own purposes.  Under config/initializers modify the file we-share_constants.rb.  It currently has the following variables:
  * APP_NAME = "the SHED"
  * RESOURCE_NAME_SINGULAR = "Tool"
  * RESOURCE_NAME_PLURAL = "Tools"

To further customize your own version, you will want to change the color scheme located in app/assets/stylesheets/theme-style.css.scss. 
The main colors you will want to alter are:
  html { 
    background-color: #688B3D;
    } 
  body {
    color: #3B5A14;   
    } 
The background image is located in a few locations in app/assets/stylesheets/application.css.scss
  body, .section .fixed-wrapper h1 {
    background: asset-data-url("purty_wood.png") repeat;
  }
